1. The historical rivalry between Russia and Britain over the control of Afghanistan was known by what name? | Great Game
2. Often used as an exclamation by Kryptonians, what red star did Krypton orbit? | Rao
3. The notes B-flat, D, and F-sharp make up what sort of triad? | augmented triad
4. What poetic device, where similar vowel sounds are repeated to create an “echo” effect, is the counterpart of consonance? | assonance Jackpot
5. Part 1: What adjective describes the period of repression that began after the February 28th incident and continued until the end of martial law in 1987? Part 2: This word names a Japanese holiday on which men give gifts to the women who gave them chocolate on Valentine’s Day. Part 3: This adjective is found in the literal translation of the name of Belarus. Part 4: Waving a flag of this colour is an internationally-recognized sign of surrender. | white Set of 4: Mexican History
9. The world’s largest, at Cholula, and others called “El Castillo” and “of the Sun”, are among the many ancient Mesoamerican structures of what kind? | step pyramid s
10. The Reform War was fought over the attempt of the Constitution of 1857 to limit the power of what organization? | Roman Catholic Church
11. What political party ruled Mexico as a one-party state for most of the 20th century, and remains its main centrist party? | Institutional Revolutionary Party (accept: PRI )
12. Name any three of the American states that were mostly or entirely part of Mexico until the Mexican-American War. | (any three of:) Texas , New Mexico , Colorado , Arizona , Utah , Nevada , California Set of 4: Hurricanes
13. What 2017 hurricane inflicted over $100 billion of damage after making landfall in Houston? | Hurricane Harvey
14. Per the Saffir-Simpson scale, what name is given to a tropical cyclone less intense than a Category 1 hurricane but more intense than a tropical depression? | tropical storm
15. What longtime mayor of Mississauga who died in January was nicknamed “Hurricane Hazel”? | Hazel McCallion
16. In what city’s PNC Arena do the Carolina Hurricanes play their home games? | Raleigh Double Jumps
17. What novel’s title char acter is raised in Mudfog before running away to London, where he falls in with a group of pickpockets, including the Artful Dodger? | Oliver Twist
18. Later in his life, Dickens revised Oliver Twist to remove some of the antisemitic descriptions of what char acter, who teaches Oliver and the other children how to pickpocket? | Fagin
19. Rother a, Vostok, McMurdo, and Amundsen–Scot t are all research stations on what continent? | Antarctica (reject: the Antarctic )
20. Emilio Palma, the first human ever born in Antarctica, was born on what country ’s Esper anza Base? | Argentina
21. After finishing third in the seventh series of The X Factor , what band signed with Simon Cowell’s record label and later released their debut single “What Makes You Beautiful”? | One Direction
22. What song, the lead single from the album Midnight Memories , has been noted for its strong similarities to “Baba O’Riley ” by The Who? | “ Best Song Ever ”
23. The lead single from the album Mind of Mine , what was the first post-One Direction single released by Zayn Malik? | “ Pillowtalk ”
24. Their first single after Zayn’s departure, what song begins “I’ve got fire for a heart, I’m not scared of the dark ” and states that “with your love, nobody can” perform the title action? | “ Drag Me Down ”
25. “Two Ghosts ” and “Sign of the Times ” are songs from the self-titled solo album of which One Direction member? | Harry Styles (accept either underlined part) SECOND QUARTER Splits: Electrochemistry & Police Procedur als Electrochemistry
26. Electrons are gained in what kind of half reaction? | reduction (reject: reduction-o xidation )
27. Name either of the Italian scientists who give their name to a kind of electrochemical cell that gener ates a current through spontaneous redo x reactions. | Alessandro Volta OR Luigi Galvani
28. The electrode potential and absolute temper ature is used to calculate the reduction potential of a reaction by what centr al equation of electrochemistry? | Nernst equation
29. What diagr am, named for a Belgian chemist, displays the chemical species present in an aqueous solution based on the solution 's electric potential and pH? | Pourbaix diagr am
30. What franchise of police procedur als was created by Dick Wolf and is known for the “dun, dun” sound effect present in all its opening titles? | Law & Order
31. In what CBS show are “unsubs ” sought out by Penelope Garcia and Spencer Reid on the FBI’s behaviour al analysis unit? | Criminal Minds
32. Based on a book series by Maureen Jennings, on what Canadian series does the titular detective investigate crimes using novel scientific techniques in turn of the 19th century Toronto? | Murdoch Mysteries
33. Captain Steve McGarret t often declared “Book ‘em, Danno” on what 1968 police procedur al, set in a namesake Pacific state? | Hawaii Five-O (reject: Hawaii Five-Zero ) Set of 3: American Universities
34. What university in South Bend, Indiana is home to the Fighting Irish sports teams? | University of Notre Dame
35. Which state contains Baylor University and Rice University? | Texas
36. Which state’s town of Cambridge contains Harvard and its namesake Institute of Technology? | Massachuset ts Set of 4: Carnivorous Dinosaurs
37. What genus of dinosaur ’s holotype was destroyed during a World War II bombing raid? This genus is named for the theorized sail on its back. | Spinosaurus
38. Sue is one of the largest and best-preserved specimens of what species of dinosaur, whose name means “tyrant lizard king ”? | Tyrannosaurus rex (accept: T. rex ) (prompt on: Tyrannosaurus )
39. Dinosaurs like herrer asaurus and coelophysis [“SEE-loh-F Y-siss ”] lived during what period, the first in which dinosaurs existed? | Triassic period
40. A specimen of what dinosaur was found locked in battle with a protocer atops in the Gobi Desert, and is actually much smaller than it appeared in Jurassic Park ? | Velociraptor (prompt on: raptor )
41. Beethoven’s Piano Sonata number 14 in C-sharp minor has what celestial nickname? | Moonlight Sonata
42. Beethoven’s Piano Sonata number 29 in B-flat major, one of the longest and most difficult piano sonatas ever written, has what forceful nickname? | Hammerklavier Sonata
43. Constructing a hypothesis, testing it by experiment, and analyzing the results are key steps in what two-word process by which new empirical knowledge can be gained? | scientific method
44. What 1620 book by Francis Bacon introduced his Baconian investigative method, which was instrumental in the development of the scientific method? | Novum Organum 6-Part Blitz
45. After playing in two national championship games with Alabama and winning the Heisman trophy with Oklahoma, who quarterbacked the Philadelphia Eagles to the 2023 Super Bowl? | Jalen Hurts
46. What Indigenous tribe went extinct after European settlement of New foundland forced them further inland? | Beothuk people/tribe
47. What famous boys-only boarding school in Berkshire, England was founded by Henry the Sixth in 1440? | Eton College
48. What word can be the opposite of both “heavy ” and “dark ”? | light
49. What Dutch artist was inspired by Manhat tan's city grid to create such paintings as Broadway Boogie Woogie ? | Piet Mondrian
50. The brands Tide, Pampers, Old Spice, and Febreze are all owned by what company? | Procter & Gamble Company (accept: P&G )
51. What Athenian inventor was exiled for murdering his nephew before constructing the Labyrinth on Crete? | Daedalus
52. As well as defeating Periphetes and Sciron, what Greek hero is perhaps best known for killing the Minotaur? | Theseus
53. Hippomenes distr acted what huntress in a footr ace by throwing golden apples? | Atalanta
54. In one version of the myth, what type of animal killed the hunter Orion with its deadly sting? | scorpion Square Roots
55. Give the simplified form of the square root of | No answer found
800. | 20 times the square root of 2 (accept: 20 root 2 )
56. If x plus the square root of x is equal to 56, what is x? | 49
57. Raising an expression to what power is equivalent to taking its square root? | 1/2 (accept:
0.5 ) | No answer found
58. If the field of rational numbers is extended by including the square root of 2 and the square root of 3, what is the degree of this extension? | 4 th degree Set of 3: Asian Cuisine
59. What food consists of a partially developed embryo in an egg, usually of a duck? | balut
60. Though it technically refers just to the bread, what name is used for a traditional Vietnamese sandwich with meat and vegetables on a baguet te? | banh mi
61. What Korean food consists of egg, meat, and/or vegetables rolled in seaweed, and visually resembles sushi? | gimbap (accept: kimbap ) Jailbreak
62. The phrase "You have died of dysentery " originates from what video game series that began in 1971? | The Oregon Trail
63. What is the YouTube channel of Lia Shelesh, known for her reaction and gaming videos? | SssniperW olf
64. Who kindly stopped for Emily Dickinson because she could not stop for him? | Death
65. In what year did the Winnipeg Gener al Strike occur? | 1919
66. What ancient city was home to artifacts such as the Pashupati Seal and the Dancing Girl statue, and was the largest known city in the Indus Valley civilization? | Mohenjo-Daro
67. What director adapted the short story In a Grove into the film Rashomon ? | Akira Kurosawa (accept: Kurosawa Akira)
68. Jinja, Juba, Khartoum, and Cairo are major cities on what river? | Nile River
69. The Old French words for “sour wine” gave us the English name of what liquid? | vinegar
70. Which is the only mythical animal in the Chinese zodiac? | dragon
71. The hashtag is the shift function of what key on a keyboard? | 3
72. What 1967 coming-of-age novel by S.E. Hinton chronicles a greaser gang with members like Sodapop and Ponyboy? | The Outsiders
73. What “M”-word is synonymous with near-sightedness? | myopia (accept word forms)
74. What word can refer to a measurement of alcohol content or to conclusive evidence? | proof
75. The upbringing of what fictional boy, alongside that of his wife-to-be, Sophie, is discussed in Jean-Jacques Rousseau's treatise On Education ? | Émile
76. Part 1: What geogr aphical entity is bounded to the southeast by an almost perfectly semicircular feature called the Nastapoka Arc? Part 2: This body of water is located just south of the Foxe Basin, and contains the Belcher Islands. Part 3: This body of water ’s namesake lowlands are home to Polar Bear Provincial Park. Part 4: Most of the rivers in Centr al Canada drain into this large body of water. | Hudson Bay (accept: Hudson’s Bay ) (reject: James Bay ) Streaks
80. The main series of Star Wars films depicts sever al Sith char acters on-screen who use the moniker Darth. Give the Sith names of up to all of them. | Darth Vader Darth Maul Darth Sidious Darth Tyranus
82. Apart from those representing Northern Ireland, and not including the Reclaim Party, name up to all seven political parties currently represented in the UK House of Commons. | Conservative and Unionist Party (accept: Tories , Tory ) Labour Party Scottish National Party (accept: SNP ) Liberal Democrat s (accept: Lib Dem s) (reject: Liber al Party) Green Party of England and Wales (accept: Green s, GPEW ) Plaid Cymru - The Party of Wales [“PLYDE KUM-ree”] Alba Party
85. Name up to all three of the attributes in the HSV model used to represent colours. | hue saturation value
87. San Simeon, California was the location of what publishing tycoon’s opulent estate? | William Randolph Hearst
88. What gas-filled organ in bony fish helps them control their buoyancy without needing to expend ener gy by swimming? | swim bladder (accept: gas bladder , fish maw , air bladder )
89. What is the world's most populous democr acy? | India
90. What portmanteau refers to the act of dressing up as a fictional char acter, often done at fan conventions? | cosplay ing
91. What machine, which can be dragged along soil to bury seeds at a set depth and regular intervals, was invented by Jethro Tull? | seed drill
92. What playwright depicted the semi-autobiogr aphical Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey into Night ? | Eugene O’Neill
93. What was the main language of the Chola Empire? | Tamil ian (accept: Old Tamil ian, Middle Tamil ian)
94. What “B”-word refers to a garment worn by transmasculine people to give the appear ance of a flat chest? | binder
95. The top male golfers from Europe and the United States face off in what biennial team competition? | Ryder Cup
96. Name both species that humans have evolved into in H.G. Wells’s The Time Machine . | Eloi AND Morlock s
97. What video game series currently has five installments, titled Arena , Daggerfall , Morrowind , Oblivion , and Skyrim ? | The Elder Scrolls
98. What colour of the rainbow has the shortest wavelength? | violet (accept: purple )
99. What article of clothing comes in rah-rah and pencil varieties? | skirt
100. Felix Zemdegs and Max Chen have each set sever al world records in what discipline? | solving a rubik’s cube (accept: speed cubing ) (accept clear equivalents)
